Just like Nagisa.
What can I say?
[Doctor] I'm sorry, but I'm
afraid I don't know what's
causing it.
If Nagisa's condition was any
indication, she could be sick
like this for months.
[Tomoya] I don't get it.
She was so fine just the
other day...
Well, I've done all I can...
[Akio] Tomoya.
You're the father this
time around, aren't you?
Of course I am.
Then like it or not, you're
going to have to man-up.
Are you okay? It keeps
getting colder.
A robot like me can't feel
the cold.
I'm sure she's suffering. I'm
sure her hands are freezing.
Although just like everything
else, I can't feel them.
Before we know it, the whole
world will be buried in white.
We'd better hurry while we
still can.
[water pouring]
[footsetps]
Is it Sports Day?
Yeah...
You're not running today, Daddy?
Nope. I'm going to stay right
here with you. All day long.
Is Akki going to run?
Knowing him? Probably so.
It'll be pretty tough for the
school to find replacements if
both of the anchors cancel.
Daddy, I want you to beat Akki.
I told you I'm staying with you.
I wish you could do both.
You're always on Daddy's side,
aren't you?
Mm-hm.
Well I'm on your side, too.
So I promise I'll protect you,
no matter what.
Hn.
Are you sleepy?
Uh-huh.
Sleep all you want. I'm not
going anywhere.
Hmm.
[Tomoya] One week...
Two weeks...
Even a month went by.
But Ushio's fever
never broke.
She could barely even leave
her room. Kindergarten was out
of the question.
[Tomoya] I'm sorry.
I'll be honest, I hate to see
you leave after all the hard
work you've done.
But then I can't very well keep
you here at a time like this.
Must've been tough.
Sanae and the Old Man tried to
talk me out of it.
But I want to be there for
Ushio as much as I can.
Do you have any savings?
I have a little. I just started
a college fund for her.
I see...
We're going to miss you.
That means a lot. Thanks
for everything.
Here, take this. Don't lose it.
You sure this is okay?
Of course not okay.
It's going to be Hell trying
to do my job without it.
Then keep it!
How about you give me your
screwdriver to use insead?
I can return it when you
come back to work.
I'll borrow it till Ushio
gets better, okay?
But after that, you've got
to use it again.
Don't worry. I'll take good
care of it for you.
[Tomoya] Ushio never left
the apartment.
For a while, I thought about
putting her in the hospital,
but in the end I decided
against it.
There was no point
in sending her there,
since they didn't
know how to treat her.
But more importantly, she
wanted to stay at home.
And I wanted her
to be happy.
All right, now let's change
your pajamas, Ushio.
Hmm.
You don't have to get up. Just
lay down and let Daddy take care
of it.
But I can do it by myself.
Don't worry about it. We all
need help sometimes, okay?
Hn...
[Tomoya] Ushio can't dress
herself anymore.
She can't even use the
bathroom by herself anymore.
Even worse, she can only eat
soft foods now.
Everything was going so well.
But now it all just seems like a
far away dream.
Ushio, is there anything that
you want?
Uh-uh.
Don't be afraid to ask.
If you want a new toy, or candy,
or whatever, I'll buy it for
you.
How about a trip?
A trip?
I want to take another trip
with you, Daddy.
Did you really have that
much fun the last time?
I mean, it didn't bother you
that Daddy was so mean and
grumpy?
I still had fun.
[Ushio] I want to go on another
trip. Just like that one.
We can take the train...
Just me and you, Daddy.
As soon as you get better, okay?
I want to go now.
Ushio, please don't make this
hard on your daddy, okay?
[Tomoya] Why can't I change
anything? Why can't I grant my
daughter her only wish?
Nagisa... What
should I do?
If only you were here to
tell me...
First me... then
my family...
It's like this town is
toying with us.
It grants us happiness
on a whim.
Then takes it away just
as quickly.
I won't stand for it. I'm
going to save Ushio no matter
what.
No matter what...
Take good care of her for me.
See you two later.
[Akio] Adios.
Hey.
This is for you.
I can't take your money.
Come on. Don't be so stubborn.
Ah, no, really I appreciate
the though.
But I still have some savings
left, so I'll be fine for a
while at least.
If you're lying to me, I'm going
to pound you...!
No! I'm telling the truth.
All right. I believe you.
But even if you lose face as a
man, there are some things you
got to protect.
You know that, right?
Yeah, I get what you mean. I'll
let you know if things get bad.
Cigarette?
No thanks, I just quit.
Guess I should do the same, huh?
[Tomoya] Hey.
What's up?
The people of this town
sacrificed a part of nature
so they could build
a hospital there.
If this town is still growing,
what are they going to sacrifice
next?
They're leveling a hill on the
outskirts of town as we speak.
They want to build a big
shopping mall out there.
[Akio] Should be convenient, so
I'm sure the people here will be
happy.
I had a weird thought.
Hm?
You said you brought Nagisa
here when she was dying?
Maybe when she got better, she
and the town were bound together
in some way?
And now her daughter's bound to
this place too...
Maybe this town is in pain?
Maybe all this change
is causing it?
Do you think their sickness
could be a reflection of that?
[Akio] I don't think pain's got
anything to do with it.
Like it or not, this world is
always changing. That's just the
natural order of things.
[Tomoya] And if people dyingis
just a part of that change, then
we have to learn to accept that?
It's just how it's meant to be?
Is that what you're saying?
Yeah, but it's a hard lesson to
learn and that's why we keep
building these hospitals.
[Akio] Here's to the happiness
of this town and all its people.
Are you thirsty?
Do you want some water?
It's cold, so drink it
nice and slow.
If you gulp it down, you'll get
a tummy-ache.
It feels nice.
That's good...
Daddy...
I want to go on a trip with you.
I know, but you have to wait
until you get better, okay?
So where is it you want to go?
We could see that field of
flowers again?
Ah but it'd be cold if we went
north in the winter. Let's go to
the south instead.
I bet we could find some place
warm and fun with lots of fresh
air. Or maybe we could...
B-but I want to go now.
As soon as you get better. How
many times have I told you?
I...
I want to go to the field
of flowers right now...
Ushio...
It's got to be now.
We got to go now.
Just you and me.
All right then, we can go.
If you say we got to go now,
then we got to go.
But if you start feeling bad,
then you got to let Daddy know.
Hm.
Good deal.
Here, I'll carry you. Come on.
I can walk on my own.
Don't force yourself.
I want to walk with you, Daddy.
I see... Then we'll walk
together as far as you can.
Okay.
We're off! Let's have lots
of fun this time, all right?
Yeah...
[Tomoya] Are you okay, Ushio?
[Ushio] Yup.
[Tomoya] Just tell me if you
start feeling bad.
We'll go see the doctor. Don't
worry, it's no trouble at all.
[Ushio] Okay.
That's enough, okay?
[Tomoya] It's snowing.
Do you like watching the
snow fall, Ushio?
Yeah.
Do you like watching it too?
Yeah... I uh...
Yeah... Daddy likes it, too.
Can you walk, Ushio?
You want to take a break?
Uh-uh.
Let's take a cab before the
snow starts getting worse.
Let me carry you.
I'm fine.
Ushio!
Daddy...
I'm right here. What is it?
Did we make it? Are we on
the train yet?
[Tomoya] Yeah... We made it on
the train.
[Ushio] It's dark. Is it night?
[Tomoya] It sure is.
It's getting late.
Daddy...
Hm?
I love you.
Yeah... Daddy loves you
too, Ushio. Very much.
Ushio?
Ushio!
USHIO!
No... anything but this...
Nagisa... Please save Ushio.
Nagisa!
Someone... Someone help!
Help her!
Nagisa... [sob]
Thanks for the hand.
How many steps
have we taken?
How many more steps to
we still have to take?
I don't know where we are. I
barely know where we're
going.
Are we almost
there, already?
Or do we still have a
long way to walk?
[Tomoya] I hate this town.
I go to school every day,
hang out with my friends,
and then I go home.
There's no place I'd rather
not go ever again.
I wonder if anything will
ever change.
Will that day ever come?
[sigh]
Anpan!
[Nagisa] Do you like
this school?
I have to say that I love
it very, very much.
But soon everything changes.
Well at least it does
eventually.
If I answer her, then Nagisa
and I will start talking to each
other.
We'll start dating.
We'll get married.
But maybe it'd be better if
that didn't happen after
all.
Maybe it'd be better if we
never met at all...